GH-38309: [C++] build filesystems as separate modules (#39067)
apache/arrow: docs/source/cpp/io.rst

various data storage backends such as the local filesystem or a S3 bucket.
It provides input and output streams as well as directory operations.

.. seealso::

>     :ref:`FileSystems API reference <cpp-api-filesystems>`.

Reviewer: `FileSystem` is the C++ class, but otherwise I think we would just write "Filesystems" or "filesystems".

:class:`metadata <FileStats>` about file entries, such as the file size
and modification time, is made available.

> Filesystem instances are constructed from URI strings using one of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filesystem instances can be constructed from URI strings using one of the
```

  Tasks that use filesystems will typically run on the
  :ref:`I/O thread pool<io_thread_pool>`.  For filesystems that support high levels
  of concurrency you may get a benefit from increasing the size of the I/O thread pool.

Defining new FileSystems
========================

Build complexity can be decreased by compartmentalizing a FileSystem
implementation into a separate shared library, which applications may
link or load dynamically. Arrow's built-in FileSystem implementations
also follow this pattern. Before a scheme can be used with any of the

> `High-level factory functions`_ the library which contains it must be

Reviewer: I don't think "High-level factory functions" will link to anything as there does not seem to be any such heading in this document. You may want to create a `ref` and corresponding target.

  Tasks that use filesystems will typically run on the
  :ref:`I/O thread pool<io_thread_pool>`.  For filesystems that support high levels
  of concurrency you may get a benefit from increasing the size of the I/O thread pool.

> Defining new FileSystems

Reviewer: filesystems?

          std::string* out_path) -> Result<std::shared_ptr<arrow::fs::FileSystem>> {
        EnsureExampleFileSystemInitialized();
        return std::make_shared<ExampleFileSystem>();
      },
      &EnsureExampleFileSystemFinalized,
    };

If a filesystem implementation requires initialization before any instances
may be constructed, this should be included in the corresponding factory or
otherwise automatically ensured before the factory is invoked. Likewise if
a filesystem implementation requires tear down before the process ends, this
can be wrapped in a function and registered alongside the factory. All
finalizers will be called by :func:`~arrow::fs::EnsureFinalized`.

Build complexity can be decreased by compartmentalizing a FileSystem
implementation into a separate shared library, which applications may
link or load dynamically. Arrow's built-in FileSystem implementations
also follow this pattern. If a shared library containing instances of
:class:`~arrow::fs::FileSystemRegistrar` must be dynamically loaded,
:func:`~arrow::fs::LoadFileSystemFactories` should be used to load it.
Such a library should have exactly one of its sources

> ``#include "arrow/filesystem/filesystem_library.h"``

Reviewer: Did we determine this is required for shared libraries unless they statically link to Arrow?

Author: It should not be required if the library links dynamically to arrow, I'll repeat that here
